I guess one note I wanted to talk
about is kind of just deploying so
we're gonna use a vercel, i don't know
if you pronounce it vercel or vercel but
I think it's vercel, cuz I talked to
them a lot and they always say vercel.
So I'm gonna say vercel,
we're gonna be using vercel for
deploying mainly because the team
at vercel are the people that
create an Next.js as well, so
we're gonna be using them.
But I also wanted to note that since last
I talked about deploying with Next.js,
Netlify and the team of Netlify has done
a really good job of adding support for
Next.js.
And here's a link here that you can
click on where they will show you how
to do that It's really impressive work,
so more and
more providers are coming online and
supporting next.js.
So I think that just kind of shows,
you know just how much pool Next.js
as start to have on the ecosystem,
so pretty, pretty nice.
But yeah,
we'll get more into deploying later,
this is just kind of like an intro to that
and a little update to what I said before.
All right, let's walk through this app,
let's actually see what
we're gonna be doing, okay?
So what I want you to do is go ahead and
if you haven't already is
just clone the actual app.
So whatever your flavor is,
if you use SSH, like me or HTTPS, or
apparently GitHub has a COI
now that you can clone things.
I've never used that before, but that
seems legit, I guess we'll look into that,
I wonder what else that seal I can do.
But yeah, they have a COI option now, but
anyway, clone it, and then obviously,
don't forget to install your modules.
How many times have you pulled down a repo
or I don't know rebased a branch or
whatever.
And you go run and
you're like, this doesn't work.
This is stupid.
And then you go hit up
someone in your company and
they're like, did you install the modules?
[LAUGH] You're like, duh,
but you know you didn't.
[LAUGH] Yeah, that happens all the time.
It happens all the time to me.
So, installing modules,
I got to the point where I'll just add
hooks using like Husky in my package,
Jason that, post Pull post rebase
whatever it is automatically installed.
That way I don't forget it.
So, pro tip, add some posts,
you know rebase post merge hooks to
automatically install your stuff.
Yeah, so it's kind of want to walk you
through all the stuff that's here.
So like I said,
this is an app that's already built out.
It's most of the UI,
not all the UI stuff is done so
we won't be having to
work with any of that.
It's just not ready for production.
Like I said, some things are missing,
some things aren't complete,
some things just weren't even thought of,
so that's our
job as the team leader to come in here and
get this thing ready for production.
And then we get to go home at noon, right?
So [LAUGH] that's what we're gonna do.
And, you know,
we collect the big checks for that.
So, basically just a tour
of what's going on here.
We have a components directory,
like I said, you can feel free to
walk through here if you want to.
We won't be working out of this directory,
like I said, I literally built a full app.
My attempt have a notion clone wiki clone.
So there's a lot of components in there.
You know, feel free to go in there and
see what I'm doing.
I don't think I'm doing anything
parrticularly special in there.
Check it out.
We have this db folder here that we'll
get to when we talk about a database.
But you can look through here if you want
to, a lot of crazy things happening,
It's called db, so you could probably
guess what it's gonna be used for.
But if you look at the files and stuff,
they're basically like no op
functions that don't do anything.
So we're gonna have to make those
functions do something at some points.
And then we have a middleware.
Middleware is the equivalent of like
middleware you would have on an express
server.
Most of this is already done for you.
I left this in here completed because
honestly, there just wasn't enough time to
actually cover implementing the middle
where to now just didn't think it
was gonna be that beneficial
because it's actually quite simple.
So middleware,
we'll be using a set of our API routes.
Pages, let's take a look at pages.
So our app is basically three parts,
like an app you have real life so
you have your landing page and
all that static stuff right?
The pricing page your about us to
talk about how good your culture is?
And how you all like dogs and
stuff like that.
And then you have the second
part which is like your blog.
So if you haven't put your company's
blog on medium you probably have
it on your site maybe for your change
log on there to something like stripe.
So that's the second part.
And then the third part is
everything that's behind signed in.
So the actual app.
So our next day S app, our app here is
going to have all three of those parts.
It's going to have the landing page
material, it's going to have a blog, and
it's also going to have a sign in
experience with the actual app is, and
just one framework where one
app that's pretty powerful.
I'm a big fan of that because I mean,
it was kind of like that,
you know 2012 2013 people did that.
But it wasn't this way, It wasn't with
like, you know, server side rendered react
and stuff like that it was more with like,
ejs, or handlebars or something like that.
Right?
It was it was a little different.
It wasn't client side, it was either
a spa or it was server side static,
it wasn't both.
So it's a little different.
And it definitely wasn't using like
server less and stuff like that.
So kind of like we're like moving full
circle now back to what we used to have
which is better technologies rethought,
so pretty crazy to develop that way.
But yeah, so we have a blog here,
we have a signing page index page.
And then we have the actual app here,
which is the sign in experience.
And of course, eventually we'll add an API
stuff because this is going to cover full
stack and authentication and
database access and all types of stuff.
So we'll add some API
routes in here as well.
Posts, this is gonna be
a folder of MDX files.
If you don't know what MDX is it's just
markdown that allows you to use react
components inside of it.
We won't be actually using any
react components inside of
MDX because there's
really no value of that.
In this course, but
it's set up to where you can do.
It will just be used in regular markdown,
public folders, just whatever was scaffold
here from Next.js, with some images that
are added, we won't be working in here.
And then the styles is just some
global styles that I added and
then I have this utils folder, which
just has some utility functions in here.
I'm using some random gradient
generator to get some gradients and
then a function to check
if we're on server side or
not, by checking the type of window which
is honestly as hacky as it looks, this
is the most legitimate way to check if
you're on the server or not, so use that.
I promise you, it works.
Other than that you pretty much just
got your standard eslintcc setup and
things like that.
This is a TypeScript app.
So the reason I made it TypeScript is so
we can get autocomplete so
we can move faster.
If you don't want to use any
of that stuff, just put any.
[LAUGH] Just put any, it's all good.
But I added it so
you can move faster, specifically.
And that's it,
that's just a tour of the app.
Again, the app is called known,
so yeah, that's basically it.
So what we'll do is we'll start it,
and because it's a Next.js app,
we should be able to just run yarn dev.
So we're gonna run yarn dev.
We're gonna open this up,
and it shouldn't be broken.
Let's see.
Cool, so if you load it up,
you'll see something like this.
You'll see we're on our static site or
landing page.
Got some really horrible copy in
here that we would like I said this,
this wasn't ready for production.
They didn't do a good job, right?
They got the UI, right?
I mean, this logo was clean, right?
But they didn't get everything right.
This isn't this is not ready for
our users.
So we really need to just this whip it up,
and that's what we're gonna be doing.
We're gonna do that, so
you'll see this default title here,
if you click on blog, Blog works but
there's just no blog posts here.
So you're not gonna see anything.
If you try to actually
go to an actual blog.
It most likely will break.
So, yeah, it'll break there
intentionally because this is not there.
There was some blog posts
it finally loaded up.
So yeah, obviously there's some
issues here and we need to fix them.
And if you try to actually sign up,
you click the sign up button, you go to
the sign in here, you try to log in with
GitHub, it literally doesn't do anything.
It doesn't even do anything,
you can click it all day.
So yeah, we got some work here,
so let's dive right in.